BBC response simulation.
Author: M.L. Kopytine


Model:
08/30/02

At present, the BBC response simulation operates in the following way:

0) In GEANT (bbcmgeo.g), 'calorimetric' option is used to simulate both 
time-of-flight and energy deposition. This means that gstar processes all 
tracks for a given sensitive element to generate integrated output: ionization
sum and (presumably) minimum time-of-flight among the contributing tracks.
In the response simulation, the geometry of ionization within the tile is 
ignored, including the actual number of tracks that contributed.

1) Response simulation is done independently for TOF and dE. This means that
any possible logics which may consider dE before deciding whether
TOF need to be read out is not taken into account. dE and TOF are 'read out'
whenever there is a GEANT hit.

2) Groups of tiles are associated with PMTs according to information provided
by Les Bland. For these groups, the PMT amplitude is calculated as a random
number sampled from a Poissonian distribution with the mean equal to 15*the 
number of MIPs equivalent of the total energy deposition in the tiles served 
by given PMT, multiplied by the photoelectron->pC conversion factor 
=0.3 pC/photoelectron. 
(see BbcDE::GetDE). The PMT resolution associated with one photoelectron
is assumed to be 30%. 
For the outer ring, the energy depositions are multiplied by 0.8 to take
their larger light absorbtion into account.

3) For a group of tiles served by a given PMT, the minimum TOF is taken.
(In fact, this feature is redundant for 2003 because there is one PMT per
tile in the inner annuli, and the outer ones do not meaure TOF).
To that, a random error with RMS of 900ps is added.

4) Times and amplitudes are discretized into 256 bins. Underflow/overflow is
stored in bins 0 and 255. For TOF, the range is between 0 and 25.6 ns (0.1 ns
per bin). For the amplitude, the range is between 0 and 256*0.25 pC.


Running options:

At present (10/14/02), the following user flags are supported:
BbcSimQa -- book and fill quality assurance histograms.
To activate, run cons with argument
cons EXTRA_CPPFLAGS="-DBbcSimQa"
